{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Good summary of previous work on preferential hillslope flow. The goal of this study was to look at a larger scale (30 m). They looked at flow velocites and upstream contributing areas.\uc0\u8232 * Role of contributing area\u8232 * Erosion in the subsurface
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Quotes:
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 Preferential flow has long been identified as an important factor in these environments (Mosley, 1979).\u8232 \u8232 Researchers have used dyes and excavation to determine how water exploits vertical and lat- eral preferential flow paths (e.g. Noguchi et al., 1999;Weiler and Fluhler, 2004).\u8232 \u8232 This method is labour intensive and destroys the soil structure, but it has been proven effective.\u8232 \u8232 Less destructive methods such as ground penetrating radar, fibre optics, and electrical conductivity have been tested, but they require expensive equipment and have seen limited successes (e.g. Holden et al., 2002; Sherlock and McDonnell, 2003).\u8232 \u8232 The few experiments that use excavation have found that the hillslopes had short (generally less than 5m) preferential flow paths (Noguchi et al., 1999; Terajima et al., 2000). Some steep, forested hillslopes have been reported to have large preferential flow paths, but it was not known how far upslope they extended (Roberge and Plamondon, 1987; Tsukamoto and Ohta, 1988; Kitahara, 1993; Uchida et al., 1999). Even though preferential flow paths are usually short and discontinuous, hillslopes produce fast tracer velocities and rapid subsurface flowresponses (Peters et al., 1995; Tani, 1997; Hutchinson and Moore, 2000).\u8232 \u8232 but it is often assumed that increasing soil moisture provides the connection between preferential flow paths (Sidle et al., 2001).\u8232 \u8232 The presence of preferential flow paths is also an important factor in slope stability. Often preferential flow paths are found in landslide scars near the sites where slope failures are initiated (Fannin and Jaakkola, 1999, Uchida et al., 2001). Once the capacity of preferential flow paths is exceeded it is believed that they contribute to high pore water pressures in the surrounding soils, contributing to a high landslide initiation potential (Pierson, 1983). Other studies have shown that they can also rapidly drain soils, thereby decreasing the landslide initiation potential (Pierson, 1983; Fannin et al., 2000).\
}