{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red230\green255\blue79;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \cb2 This is a highly cited paper and one to feed-forward to the latest research.\cb1 \
\
Beven, K., and P. Germann (2013), Macropores and water flow in soils revisited, Water Resour. Res., 49, 3071\'963092, doi:10.1002/wrcr.20156.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 Quotes:\u8232 Well, there has certainly been lots of activity in the\u8232 field but the dominant concept of soil physics in recent hydrological textbooks remains the Darcy-Richards equa- tion [e.g., Brutsaert, 2005; Shaw et al., 2010].\u8232 \u8232 Generally accessible codes, like HYDRUS now provide the capability for applying different dual porosity and dual permeability representations.\u8232 \u8232 As noted earlier one of the primary drivers for inter-\u8232 est in preferential flows and macropores in soils was the problem of explaining how pesticides and other sorbing pollutants were being transported to field drains, ground- waters and rivers [Flury, 1996].\u8232 \u8232 Hillslope tracer measurements also sug- gest connected flow pathways extending over at least tens of meters [e.g., Nyberg et al., 1999; Weiler and McDon- nell, 2007; McGuire et al., 2007; Graham and McDonnell, 2010].\u8232 \u8232 Thus, at the scale of a useful landscape element, the heterogeneity means that the Richards equa- tion will not hold the physics tells us that some other form of equation should be used even if the Richards equation holds at the small scale.\u8232 \u8232 Basically, however, knowledge about the het- erogeneity will never be available so that the impact of het- erogeneity has been consistently ignored.\u8232 \u8232 This implies that macropores carry water quite independently from antecedent soil moisture and capillary flow such that (at least) a dual-pore structure containing the matrix and the preferential flow supporting macropores is needed.\u8232 \u8232 Dye staining may not reveal all preferential pathways; only those that have been connected to a source of dyed input water. It is in fact quite common in such studies to see readily visible macropores that are not stained, or have been only partly stained. This may be because of a lack of connectivity to the source, or because they were not flowing at capacity, or that they contained water displaced from the matrix by the input water.\u8232 \u8232 An analysis of their results suggested that 95% of flow occurred in pores that were wider than 250 ?m, which occupied just 0.32% of the pore volume.\u8232 \u8232 Turbulent pipe flows [see, for instance, Jones, 2010] are the most impressive representation of such flows.\u8232 \u8232 Constant wetting front velocities that persist over prolonged time periods and considerable depths are a strong indication of non-Richards behavior during infiltration and percolation demanding a fundamentally different approach to the repre- sentation of the flow.\u8232 \u8232 The transition from preferential vertical flow in soil profiles to preferential lateral flow i.e., subsurface stormflow in hillslopes is typically related to morphological features like low permeability horizons in soil profiles or regolith, compact glacial till or bed rock. Common to these features are their decreased hydraulic conductivities in comparison with the strata closer to the soil surface, and they are related to the perching of water tables at least under conditions of high degrees of saturation.\u8232 \u8232 The networks of obvious macropores are often disconnected, such that continuous downslope flows require some mechanism for transmitting flow from one part of the network to another. Where the soil is saturated, this can be achieved by the propagation of pressure waves through the system, such that the build up of pressure in an upslope macropore link will cause the displacement of stored water into a pathway further downslope.\u8232 \u8232 There is also evidence that networks of con- nected lateral flow pathways may develop, including at the base of the soil profile [e.g., Freer et al., 2002; Buttle and MacDonald, 2002; Anderson et al., 2009b; Graham and McDonnell, 2010], even when there is percolation into the bedrock [e.g., Tromp-vanMeerveld et al., 2007].\u8232 \u8232 Direct tracing of flow pathways remains difficult, even at the zero-order catchment scale: the logis- tics of providing sufficient quantities of a sufficiently con- servative artificial tracer with a relatively homogeneous application remain demanding.\u8232 \u8232 In moving from profile to hillslope to catchment\u8232 scales, as with any representation of hydrological proc- esses, it is also necessary to invoke greater heterogeneities of input conditions, soil characteristics, regolith structure and geology [Freer et al., 2002; Kienzler and Naef, 2008; Graham et al., 2010; Graham and McDonnell, 2010]. Kosugi et al. [2008], Tromp-van Meerveld and Weiler [2008], and others criticize the common assumption that the bedrock can be considered impermeable, while Tromp- van Meerveld et al. [2007] demonstrate that losses into granite bedrock are important at the Panola site.\u8232 \u8232 [40] There are four main approaches to modeling prefer-\u8232 ential flows in current use. These are: [41] 1. the single continuum approach in which preferen-\u8232 tial flows are treated simply as a modified relative conduc- tivity curve close to saturation; [42] 2. a dual-continuum approaches in which one do-\u8232 main is treated as immobile and one is a Darcy-Richards domain, with some exchange term between the two; [43] 3. a dual\'96permeability approach in which preferen-\u8232 tial flows are represented by high permeability inclusions into a Darcy-Richards domain (as represented by DUAL of Gerke and van Genuchten [1993]) or in fractured permea- ble rocks where the matrix is represented as blocks exchanging water with Darcy-Richards flow in the fractures [e.g., Doughty, 1999; van der Hoven et al., 2002; Ireson and Butler, 2011]; and [44] 4. a dual-porosity approach in which simple volume\u8232 filling or a kinematic equation is used for the preferential flows and exchanges with an immobile or Darcy-Richards matrix are treated separately (as in the kinematic model of Beven and Germann [1981]; the PREFLO model of Work- man and Skaggs [1990]; the MACRO model for vertical preferential flow of Jarvis et al. [1991, 1994, 1997]; Lars- son and Jarvis [1999]; Larsson et al. [1999]; Acutis et al. [2001]; and the SWAP model of van Dam et al. [2008]).\u8232 \u8232 There are also relationships derived from experiments on engi- neered pipes that might be a better approximation with the use of an appropriate effective roughness coefficient.\u8232 \u8232 In contrast, it is worth noting that Buttle and MacDonald [2002] argue that macropores are only important in supply- ing vertical flux to the base of the profile. At their site in Ontario downslope fluxes take place in a high-conductivity layer at the base of the profile and as a saturated matrix flow in the overlying soil.\u8232 \u8232 Certainly, it seems to be too simplis- tic to suggest that these networks are purely self-organizing in any sense other than following paths of least resistance (more akin to the percolation theory approach of Hunt [2005, 2009], see also Nieber et al. [2006]; Nieber and Sidle [2010]).\u8232 \u8232 Later, Koestel et al. [2009] showed that Brilliant Blue dye could be detected directly and nondestructively using 3-D ERT. Both electrical resistance and radar techniques have been used in the field with either sampling from the surface or between boreholes demonstrating rapid and localized water movements [e.g., French and Binley, 2004; Amidu and Dunbar, 2007; Cuthbert et al., 2009; Garr?\u8232 eetal.,\u8232 2010].\u8232 \u8232 The inverse methods for these techniques often require reg- ularization in order to overcome the problems of instability and nonuniqueness in the solution; however, these can of- ten limit the sensitivity to highly localized changes in geo- physical properties (e.g., due to over-smoothing). This implies a degree of uncertainty associated with the result- ing images and few attempts have provided supporting evi- dence of inferred flow pathways. Added to this, one must consider the impact of changes in the hydrological state (water content, solute content) on the imaged geophysical property (resistivity, permittivity, etc.). Under preferential flow the net change in hydrological state over the imaged pixel/voxel volume may be extremely small (e.g., 100% change in solute content but in only 1% of the volume) and perhaps beyond the level of detectability according to the sensitivity of the petrophysical relationship. Since the inverse methods applied can be highly susceptible to over- fitting without adequate noise assessment then one can risk misinterpretation of preferential flow when the true cause is inappropriate assessment of signal to noise. Binley et al. [1995] illustrate how the tomographic inversions can be sensitive to data noise\u8232 \u8232 much of soil physics (at least during significant infiltration) is predicated on the wrong experimental\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 but the possibility of downslope Stokes film flows induced by sloping soil structures remains speculative.\u8232 \u8232 This Multiple Interacting Pathways (MIPs) model might be one way of introducing different process represen- tations into profile, hillslope and catchment applications in future.\u8232 \u8232 Soil physics remains measure- ment technique limited, particularly in the field.\
}